# battleship/battleship

## Experiment in different ideas to represent data in a simple application.
This is a playground to explore in an application how to represent data using
the basic language constructs in different ways. This idea came from a
conversation with a colleague of mine about thinking outside the box and
trying alternative data structures to see where they are useful and where
they are not. Choosing a Battleship game is random, I just wanted something
with a bit of complexity but not constrained to storing data in a DB. In some
languages and frameworks the use of a DB and ORM can drive the data structures
one chooses to use.

* I would not recommend some of these ideas in a production application being
worked on by a team. They do not all lend themselves to being readable and easy
to reason about. This could lead to a buggy and hard to maintain codebase.

### Binary Numbers
  The first idea is to represent the playing field as a binary number instead
  of using the typical nested array (vector in Clojure) approach.
  This makes most functions that need to create, transform and reason about
  the state of the field simple mathematical functions using `bit-and` and `+`
  functions to return a new version of the state of the field.

  A downside is not being able to debug and reason about such a data structure
  representing the field. In the REPL if you output the number created from
  a transformation function it is a BigInt. While 42N seems like a compact
  way to represent the data, one is not able to look at this and tell what
  rows and columns have relevant data and which don't. It needs to be
  transformed again into a string representation of the number. Then it is
  still not clear what rows or columns the data falls under. So it needs to
  transformed again and output with row and column headers and line breaks.

### Record only relevant data
  This idea is to only record the relevant data as a vector of coordinates.
  A field would be a vector with only the coordinates of where the ships are
  placed, or where projectiles have landed. This would be a way simpler way
  to reason about the data structures while building and debugging the code.
  It also would not require a typical nested for loop construction.

Run the project directly, via `:exec-fn`:

    $ clojure -X:run-x
    Hello, Clojure!

Run the project, overriding the name to be greeted:

    $ clojure -X:run-x :name '"Someone"'
    Hello, Someone!

Run the project directly, via `:main-opts` (`-m battleship.battleship`):

    $ clojure -M:run-m
    Hello, World!

Run the project, overriding the name to be greeted:

    $ clojure -M:run-m Via-Main
    Hello, Via-Main!

Run the project's tests (they'll fail until you edit them):

    $ clojure -T:build test

Run the project's CI pipeline and build an uberjar (this will fail until you edit the tests to pass):

    $ clojure -T:build ci

This will produce an updated `pom.xml` file with synchronized dependencies inside the `META-INF`
directory inside `target/classes` and the uberjar in `target`. You can update the version (and SCM tag)
information in generated `pom.xml` by updating `build.clj`.

If you don't want the `pom.xml` file in your project, you can remove it. The `ci` task will
still generate a minimal `pom.xml` as part of the `uber` task, unless you remove `version`
from `build.clj`.

Run that uberjar:

    $ java -jar target/net.clojars.battleship/battleship-0.1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar

## Options

FIXME: listing of options this app accepts.

## Examples

...

### Bugs

...

### Any Other Sections
### That You Think
### Might be Useful

## License

Copyright © 2024 Toddpickell

_EPLv1.0 is just the default for projects generated by `deps-new`: you are not_
_required to open source this project, nor are you required to use EPLv1.0!_
_Feel free to remove or change the `LICENSE` file and remove or update this_
_section of the `README.md` file!_

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License version 1.0.
